Before we get started, it would be really helpful if you could
just give us a brief intro about your name and which organization you're from.
Hello, Ming Chun. Hello, Lindsey. We can see you.
Why don't we start with you first, and then we'll move to the people in the room.
Ming Chun, do you want to go first?
Oh, tena koutou katoa.
Ko Ming Chun Wu au.
I am the Finance Committee
Chair for the New Zealand Chinese Medicine Council.
Kia ora koutou. Ko Lindsey Pine toku ingoa.
I am the Registrar and General Manager for the Chinese Medicine Council.
Fabulous.
Kia ora koutou. Ko Simon Watt toku ingoa.
I'm the Deputy Chair of Medical Council, layperson member and
Chair of Audit and Risk Committee, and the CEO and Registrar
of Medical Council, also with us.
Hello.
Of Medical Council.
Oh.
Kia ora koutou. Marie Mackay, Chief Executive of the Dental
Council.
Hi, Marie.
Kia ora koutou. James Dunn, Registrar of Physiotherapy.
Hi, James.
Ngā mihi nui ke koutou katoa. I'm Hamish McDonald, the Registrar of the
Medical Sciences Council.
Thanks, Hamish.
Tena koutou. Ko Jacque Manly tene.
Ko ōtika whakahaere o te Kāwha Ngā Manapo.
Jacque Manly, CEO, Registrar of the Paramedic Council.
And I've got Brendan, our board member. Tena mue.
Gidday, Brendan. Well, thank you all very much for coming to what is an unusual way
to do this, but the committee was faced with all bad options of having
a discussion with you about a similar problem, and we didn't want to traverse the
same issues over and over again, that from our perspective are the same
issues.
So we
know that you've been sent some of our questions and lines of inquiry
about the way that fees have been prescribed.
From our perspective, this is about when Parliament gives a body the
ability to set a fee, what is setting a fee, and does it
include
what-- There are plenty of examples in yours fee setting, but also
other bodies where fees are set at cost.
Our task here has been to understand whether it can be more
accurate,
because from the perspective of lawmakers,
if you say set a fee, you might expect an actual dollar figure or a figure that
reflects
some tie to the actual cost of an actual thing.
So we've got some questions for you. We'll move through them.
But
maybe we could begin with
Medical Council.
Mm-hmm.
So,
can you just talk us through, there are things like the charges
per test,
which seem to be welcome, Dr. Zinan.
At one end of the spectrum where it's an actual thing, it's an
actual
something which you could perhaps forecast out for.
Can those fees be set in a way which
would prescribe ahead of time, for someone who is actually
paying this a bit more clearly?
Thank you, Chair. Yes, they can.
Originally, that's how the Medical Council did it historically,
but then shifted to doing it at cost.
There are two tests,
or two types of tests that have had this at-cost
denomination, so that's urine, blood, breathalyzer
together, one type of test. The other is a hair test.
So one of them is mainly for drugs, alcohol,
but they can be for various substances.
And so the reason for doing them at cost is
because they're done by external laboratories, and depending on the
number of substances that are being looked for in the test and given the number of
providers, the cost can be quite variable.
But as soon as this issue was raised, which we acknowledge, by the
committee, we stopped charging it and have looked at our
recent historical figures to recalculate, and
so the tests are now $20 and $50. And
if they actually come under, we will charge less.
And our concern, Medical Council's concern, was actually overcharging-
Mm
... for the test, so it only wanted to pass through the cost, and that is what it
had done. But recognized the constitutional principle of
specifying a figure and transparency.
Yeah, that makes sense. And so your process, as I understand it
now, is to estimate the costs with those third-party providers.
Yes.
And then to, I guess you would be able to balance that over time if you saw that
the actual cost
you were recovering more than that, you would do it in the next term for resetting
fees. Is that right?
Yes. Yes, and that's what we're consulting at the moment for the next financial
year.
Okay.
So we could look at that each year.
And you're setting them every financial year?
Yes.
Okay. That's helpful. Thank you.
There's
a second option, and maybe we'll come to the Chinese Medical
Council. I know there were some other questions, but
so for those
fees, and this applies to the paramedics'
fees as well.
These are for things like accreditation and monitoring,
and those programs which-Within a prescribed scope of
practice.
So I want to ask you about
where you don't have a high degree of certainty
about what the costs will be, how you're currently
projecting those fees out. I'll come first to the
Paramedics Council, and then I'll come to you online, Lindsay.
Yeah. Kia ora, thank you, Chair. So we hadn't
accredited before, so we didn't have any history to look at, so we
worked with both education providers, and we literally went
through the number of people, the time it might take, the
expenses that it would incur, and about what we thought it might be.
Mm.
So a completely transparent process.
And our view was to, once we finish the process, then be able to
gazette a fee, where we talked about maybe up to a certain dollar value.
But once again, like the Medical Council, if it was less than, we would only
charge for what it took. So we've only just completed our
first accreditation,
completely collaborative, engaged with the providers, who've
been happy and have since paid the fee.
So we're now in a process where we could gazette a fee, but we wanted to wait to
see what was going to happen during this process before we consulted,
in case you were going to recommend a set formula or
a type that you would prefer.
Is that the same situation for the Chinese Medical Council?
Yes, very much so. Obviously, we're very new as well.
We've been through two full accreditation processes with
providers and are just in the process of doing a third one.
We now have a pretty
good idea of the costs involved for those processes,
and our preference would be now to shift away from
a pure cost recovery fee to having a set initial
application fee,
and then, I guess, a top-up end of process fee that would still be cost
recovery for the variable aspects of the process that are out
of our control.
Obviously, we can set hourly rates for committee fees and participation and so on.
But the part of the process where it relies on the
engagement of the provider and the quality of the application, et cetera,
that determines some of those variable costs.
We still would not want to be taxing the profession as such
for anything that goes over
the threshold of a set fee.
But we would still be regularly reviewing that fee every year to see if we
needed to modify it.
Mm.
Okay, a couple of things to come back to you with.
One is the hourly rate. So you've said that you're going to
introduce an hourly rate based on... No, you're not going to.
No. So we already have hourly rates as part of our
fees. So we estimate with the provider what the cost will be at the outset,
which includes the hourly rates for the committee members that are involved, the
council members that would review it at the end, and any staff
participation. But what we can't control is the travel costs,
accommodation, how long the site visit might be,
and
any requests for further information to the provider and how fully they
cooperate during the process. All of that leads to
extended time frames, more hours,
and can significantly change the actual cost at the end of the
day.
So how do you--
Would you expect,
if I was trying to accredit under this process and my
colleague was also trying to accredit, how much do you think that variable
costs would come into play? Why is it that my costs would be
very different from hers, or is that just not the case?
So it's based on the quality of the application that gets submitted,
and we can only really look at that at face value when
it's initially received. So if we have to go back to
a provider for more information, if they just haven't provided enough to
satisfy a criteria on our accreditation standards,
that back and forth can take quite some time, depending on how
ready they are to deliver their program, if that makes sense.
And the other variables, like whether,
depending on when they submit their application, whether we're going to have to go
back again at a later date to perform any observations of assessments, et
cetera.
Yeah, there's variable costs that could throw that
end cost out,
if you like.
Um-
So it's not like for like, if you like.
Yeah.
If that makes sense.
So
I get the sense that the main variable cost that you've pointed to
there is about the quality of applications and how much
information you need to seek from applicants more.
Yeah.
So then
that seems to be the time would be the
more-
Yes
... open variable, right? So
why isn't there an
hourly rate that would then at least prescribe some form of
ability for
someone who is paying that rate to see that if they were to have an
application that took a longer time, that they might expect to pay more?
Is there also another fairness element that you're taking into account when
setting the fee, or is it more about
then what you would expect,
who should bear the cost of the applications which are not up to
standard?
Yes, it would be more about who should bear that cost.
So they know at the outset what those hourly rates are, and they've got an
estimate of how many hours we think that's going to be.
But if they exceed that by taking more time up of those
committee members and council members and
making a decision on whether they're meeting those accreditation standards,
thenI guess they're in the know about the fact that it's going to cost
more. And then there's those other variable costs to do with travel and
so on. Our concern is that we wouldn't want to be
passing additional over-and-above costs onto the profession
rather than provider if we set a fixed fee for the process.
So question here from Dr. Junnan.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
Kia ora. Thank you so much for coming.
I guess just following on from the question, one of the things we recently come up
with is where the cost of the fee can
fluctuate year on year, and sometimes it's cheaper to do it in subsequent
years than it is to do it in certain years.
How would that then you account or for people to account for,
or maybe I'll leave it for a little bit because maybe it'll be cheaper in two
years' time than doing it right now.
Or now we're facing, for example, a particular
global issue which will understandably make things cheaper, I'll
put it off.
Mm.
Is that accounted for or do you see a dip in terms of
uptake or how people perceive the-
So it might be useful to explain the process of what
we're talking about. So we're talking specifically about the
accreditation of courses, and this
charge not being a set fee from the council.
So accreditation, of course, is to ascertain
whether an education provider provides
a course that prepares the graduate, in our case, to
be registered as a practitioner. And so
the accreditation of
checking through that the provider meets all the criteria that we've
established to
provide a quality education program, that
process of checking that they meet the standards,
is simpler if it's straightforward and we can see that they meet the
standards. It's more complex if the evidence or the
criterias are partially or not fully evident through what
they have provided. And so that causes the
variability. Not so much which year because it's
not based on
timing. They either meet the accreditation standard or they don't.
And so if they do meet the standard, their graduates can be eligible
to register.
And so
it's obviously in their interest to ensure that their course is
meeting those accreditation standards.
Can I check just-- Thank you for that.
Sorry, I can't actually see the name from this angle.
Thank you. Can I just check, so in terms of the accreditation, I guess
in this case, in some cases, PDEs, for private training establishment, et cetera,
who want to be accredited, they also would look at it from a way of, well, we
got existing programs. Have you ever heard feedback where they
go like, "Look, we know it's going to be, for example, expensive this year.
We want to accredit a new program, but we might wait for a little while for us to
accredit a new program because it's, on balance, going to cost
us more than a few students we're going to be needing that
accreditation for to get through." Being one
part of my question then. And the other part is, I also see that with cost
recovery, you're looking at accreditation monitoring of programs.
So I would guess in terms of the monitoring component, that's
within the council's control. Does the current council,
at least from a transparency perspective, have a schedule,
like external evaluation review for NZQA, does it have a schedule
of how they're going to monitor these programs on a four-year cycle,
on a seven-year cycle, and PDEs are aware of that?
And would there be any, I'm not saying this is true,
but would there be a perception of we know that this year a certain cost is going
to be higher, we'll be able to recover more cost, and therefore,
we're going to do more monitoring this year than other years?
Not saying that it's true, but I'm saying that, yeah, is it on a schedule?
So yes is the answer to that
question. Accreditation is granted anywhere from one to
five years at the moment, depending on
whether they have satisfied all of the accreditation
standards or they require some monitoring in terms of
partially meeting some of those standards.
And so it's completely within their control how fast they
tick off those things that might be only partially met.
And that wouldn't really come into in terms
of costs to do with that, depending on whether it was something
huge like establishing a full
OSCE assessment process, for example, for all of their
students.
But it would
be
annual monitoring where they were providing updates on where their
progress was up to.
And we're talking about some kind of regular
report to the council about how they're doing on those.
So the costs for monitoring are much lower than a full
accreditation process. And they'd be well aware of what those would be.
The accreditation issue is also made out of most of you.
But just on the issues of the two entities for whom this
is an exercise of predicting the future,
can I ask as well,
for the paramedics, does the same logic
apply to vastly different costs because some people are
ready and some people are not? Or is it a different issue about why costs are
variable for you?
So we only have two education providers.
One's a university and one's a polytechnic.
Mm-hmm.
There were different costs between them.
One's Wellington-based, one was Auckland-based.
So the Wellington-based variable costs were
obviously cheaper.
Okay.
Less flights, et cetera.But
also the universities have
different paperwork and so they were probably able
to provide clearer information where we had to work a little bit
harder with the polytech. But they're obviously also going through
their own challenges with Te Pūkenga at the moment.
So there was a lot going on in that space.
But overall, it probably ended up to be about $5,000 difference between
the two.
Yeah. Okay.
I guess that's the question we're trying to get to is whose job is it to
set a reasonable fee and then whose job it is to
create tension in the system where that fee would be reasonable.
We don't want it to be us. It cannot be us.
No.
But if it's not the professional body-
Yeah
... where is there-
Mm
... something which makes sure that the people who must pay the fee because
you have the legislative power to make them are paying a
fair fee.
So it's with that kind of double costs which if you were to
advertise two different costs-
Mm-hmm
... that from our perspective would fulfill the brief much more cleanly.
Yes.
Okay. Let's get to then the broader education issues. This applies to everyone.
But we'll start with public lawyer.
Tell us about
the issues around how much you can
notify people for certainty and fairness within the system
where you don't want to incentivize some people who--
How you want to spread that fairly between people who are going to be very quick
and people who are not.
Is that me? Am I the public lawyer?
Yeah, you're the public lawyer.
Okay. Thank you, Ms. Williams.
So,
from our perspective in the accreditation space, just to briefly link back to that,
we moved from a full cost recovery model to a fixed fee model over the last couple
of years. The feedback from the institutions was very emphatic
that was what they wanted, that they would prefer to have fees that they were set
and they could budget for, rather than fees that would fluctuate-
Mm
... a bit. And also because the board and the institutions have been around for a
long time, we had a pretty good sense of what those costs
would be. So in that sense, that was
relatively straightforward. The particular challenge we have
encountered, not so much in some of the fees questions that you've raised, but in
things like our international fees, is where...
So for example, for the accreditation of international institutions, we've never
done that before. We don't have any actuals to base that on.
We've got a starting figure, which is we know how much it costs for a domestic
institution. And
to be honest, we simply applied a margin on top of that to cover for things like
flights and travel and stuff like that, which we would anticipate we would need to
do, and then in the future years we would review that to bring it
closer to actuals. I think one of the points that Dr.
Shunnan raised there is
there will have to be a balancing exercise there because we will derive some
benefit from the first time we do that, if we do that, because we will know more
about how to do it as an organization, that we then have to make sure is kind
of fairly spread out across subsequent
organizations or entities that might come to us for accreditation overseas
if they
do.
Mm.
The other sort of fee that I think we were
queried on were the fees around supervision, which we've shifted to an hourly
rate. It was actually the hourly rate that the board always had, so we've just put
that in our latest fees notice. And I think one of the challenges
there for us, it's something we're very mindful of, is that
practitioners don't, more so than any other, perhaps any other transaction
practitioners, usually don't have a choice about coming into a supervision program.
They're there because the board has ordered them to do so, or the tribunal has put
them into that position. So they're not necessarily making that kind of
commercial assessment of what that will cost.
The board's philosophy generally on supervision for competence purposes and for
return to practice purposes is that rather than saying it's for three months
or six months or nine months, you will stay in that program until you've
demonstrated competence, which sets an incentive for the practitioner to get on
with it. If they can demonstrate competence really quickly, then they come out of
the program. So we-
That's sort of the question, though. Is this effectively operating like a penalty?
Well, that's something we-
Because you don't have the power to set penalties.
We don't have the power to set penalties, so the $90 rate we've set is
basically the rate that we then pay the supervisor.
So it's
essentially a direct pass-through.
We don't-
But it's a fee associated with
slower
uptake of the obligations on any given practitioner
or having other issues or having administratively
poor paperwork. It sort of does from the perspective of someone paying the
fee look like a penalty.
So the competency and return to practice programs are not punitive in
nature. They're supposed to bring the practitioner to where they're supposed to be,
which is why we set those fees strictly to recover the costs that
are
incurred. And we set those fees so that if a practitioner works hard
and is able to come up to speed quickly, then they don't end up sort of
subsidizing those who are not able to do that.
When practitioners are under supervision because of the tribunal, of course, they
have gone through that disciplinary process.
So there is an element, I don't say it's necessarily the
whole point of the exercise, but there is an element of penalty in those
tribunal audit supervision programs.
So you sort of see it as a cheaper fees for
compliant A+ homework?
Well, I think, yeah, that's one way you could view it.
I think the other is that we don't think it's fair that if someone is able
to demonstrate competency quickly-
Yeah
... that they should have to then continue to meet the cost of a supervision
program which they're not really getting anything out of.
Yeah. What might be the difference for someone who is a
physiotherapist who is
doing great and will fly through?
Can you give us a sense of the difference that they might pay?
Yeah. I think the
really quick sort of pass through a competency program might be
two or three months with meetings
everyPerhaps every fortnight or a week.
So that's the
number there. For some of our longer competence programs, they drag on a bit
more. The difference is not massive.
It's probably
a few thousand dollars at the really outer end.
But it is something also that we're very mindful, for a lot of physiotherapists,
that is a huge amount of money.
Yeah.
It's a massive impost on them.
And a lot of spent time.
And a big demand on their time, and it's not something they particularly want to
do. So we are very mindful that what we are looking to recover from them
or what we're doing in that space is the least that we need to do to discharge our
obligations. And if we don't need to do it, then we don't.
And what is the incentive in the system?
If you've got fast people flying through, these are your industry leaders who
have the biggest platforms, I would guess.
And then people who it is taking longer and they're paying more,
having less of a voice, and that where is the
pressure on the regulatory body to make
sure that their process is fast and efficient?
So with
competence programs, the onus is very much on the practitioner.
They're the one who we are bringing up to competence.
And I think really the incentive for the practitioner there,
there is a financial element to it, as I said, that impost on them can
be significant. But I think also, to be fair, most physiotherapists don't
like being below the required standard of competence. They want to be there.
And by and large, what we find is that
it can take a little while to sort of work through some of that stuff in
themselves, as you might imagine.
But once they start engaging with those programs, we put a bit of time
and effort into making sure the supervisors that we've selected are the right
people. They are experienced practitioners.
I don't think any of them would be doing it to turn a buck.
They're almost certainly undercharging for their time from our perspective.
They're the right people to bring
those practitioners up to where they need to be.
Mm-hmm.
Just checking note. Happy to move on to the last one.
Okay. Let's talk about Dental Council. Slightly different set of issues there.
You've heard from the Regulations Review Committee a couple of times.
The unquantified fees for competence and research programs and supervision.
Help us to understand
why you came back
to the committee and said that you weren't going to change that practice.
Oh,
so Dental Council operates 21 scopes practice.
So if we have a dental technician in a lab that makes false teeth,
the level of competence remediation we might need to do for
someone that falls below that standard is very different to
somebody that's maybe a dentist or a dental specialist.
Even within the scopes of practice,
the range of issues for a competence program
can often sit with fundamentals around diagnosis of
something or treatment planning.
So I'll give you a very, very simple example.
We've all heard of a root canal.
Yeah.
At a very simple level, it can apply to a single
tooth, but under diagnosis on a more
certainly an irreversible pulpitis.
It could affect not only the surrounding teeth, the
jaw and the temporal region. So if we've got something that's in the
complex area, the level of remediation,
re-education needed to bring the person up to the standard is significantly
more than if we're looking at root canal and what's called
endodontics at a simple level. So it is the
clinical deficiency,
the range of patients which add in a complication
to the case mix that determines the range of education
that's needed.
And when we are setting that, we set it at the cost recovery.
We put out to the practitioner, this is the cost of the program.
They sign essentially a program and agree to pay the
costs. Alternatively, we give them the option, if you do not want
to do that remediation, we are very happy to put a condition on
your practicing certificate that you can no longer do endodontics.
And we give them the choice so that they can choose to spend the money to
remediate themselves, or they have a condition on their practicing
certificate. So we never force someone to do it.
They have a choice about what they want to do with their practice.
They can limit practice, or they can choose to go through the program.
The other factor that affects it is actually the insight of
the practitioner and the length of time it takes them to learn the
fundamental knowledge, clinical skills and judgment they've got to gain through
that remediation, and then apply it in case-based scenarios
so we can be assured they're competent.
Some people, that can happen, and they only need two or three cases.
Other people may need 10 cases to demonstrate they're back to competence.
That variability changes the program significantly.
So that's why we were unsure, because if we
don't charge the person at cost recovery, what we're saying is the profession has
to cross-subsidize this individual to come back to the
required standard, and we don't think that's fair on the other
practitioners. You've got a professional obligation to remain
competent. If you fall below it, it's up to you to pay for your
remediation to come back, because why should the profession-- We consulted with
the profession on that philosophy.
Is that how they wanted it to operate, that if someone
falls below the standard, they are responsible for the individual cost
of that? But it is the range, and a slower
person does take more time. But if they've got to go through more cases
to solidify the application of that knowledge, then that's better
because we want safe care for the public of New Zealand.
So for the competence recertification and supervision
feesI think you've told me that you need
to set several fees, not that
there's
an unknown.
I think the unknown comes by the fact that
when we get the notification about someone-
Yeah
... we don't know how long it's going to take them to remediate.
So we can say we believe, and we've put that this is a six-month
course.
Yeah.
We've had people take 18 months to do the program.
Right.
Sometimes it's from lack of engagement at the beginning because the
lack of insight is they're not engaging, but they're under because
of serious risk of harm to the public, they're under supervision.
Mm.
So every treatment diagnosis is being reviewed, so they're under that
supervision. So we ensure harm doesn't happen to the public, but we're
allowing them to work with that extra guard rail in to make sure they're
safe to work on the public.
So now I think I understand that. So,
in your example you said that the practitioner would have to agree to
a particular fee for a program.
Yep.
But now you've said that it
might take longer so-
Oh, sorry. What we say in that program, we would cost the
program. If we believe that program's going to take six months, we give them the
costing for that. What we say are the variables, is if you take longer,
supervision's charged at this hourly rate.
Okay.
But we don't know whether that's going to be a seven-month program or
12, what the extension period is. So where there's variables,
we indicate in the program that it is indicative on the length of
time you take to remediate,
and re-educate yourself through the program.
Mm-hmm.
So it seems like there's a sort of base course cost, and then there's an extra
cost-
Mm
... associated with the unknown timing element.
Mm-hmm.
Okay. And
what are we talking about here? In the example that you gave with
the root canal and someone under supervision to meet, what
might they be paying, roughly?
Okay.
I've been with the council for 16 years.
In my time, the competence programs have ranged from 2,000 to
147.
Ooh.
On the 147 one, we actively went in each time asking the
practitioner whether they wished to stop the program and have a condition of not
doing something. That's not what they wanted.
They wanted to keep going.
They wanted to keep going, and they got there.
Yeah, okay.
Okay.
I guess this is another question, sort of, and I don't even know if it can be
answered. But do you know what sort of the expectation they
have and how much is it? Is it when people get the invoice, for
example, do you go like, "Oh, this is less than I thought," or, "Whoa, this is
not..." Do you kind of keep them up to date-
Oh, absolutely
... every step of the path?
We would give them, they sign, we sort of do
a contract. We sign, they sign.
Yeah.
That this is the education they're going to get.
These are the clinical educators.
In the dentistry scope of practice, there's 15 core
foundational modules, and it could be seven of those, so you might have seven
different educators. But we say who the educator is, the
length of time, what we expect from them, what they can
expect from their educator.
Mm-hmm.
And we have monthly reporting, but there is an indication at
the beginning of what we believe the cost will be.
Would that also be viable for people
who may give you a phone call, et cetera, and saying, "This is what I
intend on doing. Before we go into a contract, would you be able to give me an
indicator of how much-"
Mm-hmm.
Okay.
Yep. Absolutely.
So even though the schedule itself says at cost,
in that individualized interaction, you can give them
better certainty.
Absolutely, and it's because of that case-by-case nature
that we are doing that, but they absolutely know what the cost for them
will be for that program. And if the only variables
are that supervision, if they take a bit longer.
I think I understand.
And
as I understand the first time that the committee wrote
to the Dental Council-
Mm
... about this, raising some of these issues, was that
the legislative tool is pretty blunt.
You get to use the coercive power of the state-
Yes
... to make sure that people are going to pay this fee,
because they've reached a level of competence.
Mm-hmm.
And I hear your logic around not wanting to cross-subsidize people who
want to continue to meet the standard.
But the question for us is,
for someone who
is being asked to comply with a program rather than a set of
standards,
and is on the line to pay $100,000,
which they were definitely electing to do in this case.
But is that
the power that you've been given, or was the power about the fee
to meet a certain standard and to then prescribe a program which would meet
the standard?
I
see that it's a very variable process for any-- And
I think, how many programs was it that you were-
We've got 21 scopes of practice.
Yeah.
So that's the variability. We could gazette the
lowest cost to the highest cost, and it could fall somewhere in between-
Mm
... as well.
Whether that would be very useful.
But how useful is that?
Yeah.
Whereas the case-by-case assessment, so that
we don't start education and the practitioner doesn't start
doing the education unless they agree to the cost
and the visibility of that cost, what's being delivered.
But also they get the option, as I say, to have a condition that they no
longer do, say, endodontics anymore.
So they have a choice. Do they want to remediate or not?
And help me to understand the people who end up in this position.
So if I was in this situation, have I received
a letter that says,
"The Dental Council are requiring me to do this course"?
What actually happens is we get a complaint.
We might get a complaint from the public about the treatment they've received.
I've done your teeth wrong.
Treatment they've received. We investigate that.
We have professionals, dentists on staff.
They look at
the records. They'll go out to the practitioner to get information.
They'll look at the records, and if we see there's a competence issue, we
might do some section 36 inquiries, go into the practice, look
at it a little bit more, and then that information
is determined as to whether this person needs to have a competence review.
And normally what we're seeing is, for instance,
they're not
doing the correct diagnosis and treatment planning.
They may not be giving the correct options of informed consent.
Infection prevention control may have an issue.
We've got issues with endodontics, implants,
orthodontics, and fillers. So there's
four areas there that we've got to look at, and that requires us to
go in. Under the act, a competence review committee made
of two peers in the same scope of practice as our policy, and
a lay person goes in, reviews all that information, and writes a
report to council. Council then determines whether there is a competence
review required to remediate that person up to the required
standard. But it all leverages off the notification and
complaint that comes in.
Does the Dental Council have--
How often would it decide not to allow
that type of practice for a practitioner who fell
below the standard of competence rather than recommending a competency course?
There are some that
goes that way, depending on what we see.
But under the act, we follow the
section 36 fires to competence. Failure to do a competence
program can lead to other remediations under the
act.
Okay.
And failure to comply with the requirements of the competence program,
for instance, supervision and not actually adhering to that, can lead
to suspension. So there are other avenues, definitely-
Okay
... that we can follow.
I think I've just got a couple of final questions.
So,
just
where is the
tension in the system that means that
anyone practicing in the dental scope of practice
is sure that they are getting a valuable
course and that the education is valuable to them?
So,
at council, we have an education director, who is a
professor and dean of a dental school, that is
specifying the education requirement and ensuring that
any educational program we put together is at the same benchmark
level of a graduate from the dental school.
Because at the end of the day, we allow our graduates to work independently,
so we have to come back to that level.
And we're
benchmarking, ensuring that the assessment methodology is the same.
Is this a penalty?
No. I think there's a professional obligation under the
act for people to remain competent, and we
can't issue a practicing certificate each year unless we're assured that someone's
competent. So when we have information before us that indicates that
someone's not competent, we're duty-bound to
wrap. And I think the act is
very enabling, certainly compared to international jurisdictions, because it's
very supportive. We're wrapping an education team around this
person to bring them back to the standard. They can still hold their career.
Often, they can still work, maybe in a limited scope, but they can still work.
So we're not stopping them working, but we are bringing them back to the
required standard so they can provide a better service and better
access of care to the public.
Mm-hmm.
If the person in your example was to do an alternative course,
say they were doing a postgraduate course in a particular
thing, would that be something you would consider as part of their practice if they
step back from practice and sought to be licensed in the next year?
Absolutely. Some of our practitioners come in and ask.
They'll say when we have a competence program, they'll come back and
provide feedback, and they'll come in with an alternative course that they may have
found somewhere else. We'll assess that course.
If that's going to do the required learning and provide the
person
with the graduate competencies that we need for the scope,
then we would approve that course.
Okay.
Thank you. I'm sorry, Hamish, we haven't asked you any questions.
But do you want to give us a view?
That's good.
I might just intervene a little bit because it's
the only fee that the Medical Sciences Council charges.
That cost is accreditation fee.
Yeah.
And I really appreciate the Chinese medicine, the paramedics for taking the heat
earlier rather than
me.
You've had one for a long time. You're worse than them.
We have had it for a very long time. Since 2011, I think, or 2013.
But just one thing about the variability of the accreditation, the potential for
that is that,
if you've got an established university that might be adding a postgraduate degree,
or if they have postgraduate and undergraduate degree,
several of the hoops around the governance of the institution,
around the site, particularly when you've got
laboratories or anesthetic tech
simulation rooms that need to be assessed.
We know they exist, so we don't have to spend time
in comparison to a Greenfields
university or polytechnic deciding to offer a medical lab
science degree or an anesthetic tech degree.
They'd have to show us the site.
Mm-hmm.
They'd have to prove the governance.
They'd have to show that they've got a good connection with the community
and also their clinical placement providers would not be there.
It wouldn't have that infrastructure.
So we'd need assurance that all of those things have been
established or are being established, and that there's strong connections,
adequate facilities. We wouldn't know who the staff is.
So
it's the difference between having-
A bricks-and-mortar longstanding institution that you've already accredited for
another, versus
something popping up-
It is good being a state monopoly.
Yeah.
So
sorry, can I just add one thing on the accreditation as well?
With our 21 programs, one of the changes that can happen that can cause
a shift in the
funding year on year is the universities do curriculum
changes. So if at the time you're up for a review of accreditation and
they are developing a curriculum change to make the degree more
contemporary to practice, then that can cause a
bit of a shift in the work we have to do,
and that can change the fee.
Okay. That is helpful.
I'm going to ask you before we wrap up, and this has been incredibly helpful, thank
you,
in all slightly different issues.
But I just wonder if we want to start from the side, and
we'll come to you last on the Zoom.
Just to give us a view on
the challenge before us is,
is this what fee means?
Does fee mean
on one end a dollar figure? It might mean an hourly rate, it might mean
a range.
If we
were to read fee in its ordinary English meaning,
it probably means one of those things.
So just
give us, in the last few minutes, just a view on it.
Prescribe and set.
Yeah. Prescribe a fee, set a fee, and the meaning of
fee.
Yep.
Obviously for the Medical Council, it's a narrow issue around a couple of tests.
But on that broader question, and
thinking about the principles behind it,
it needs to be transparent. And hearing the conversation,
I can see how
if you had enough information, if it's granular enough that you
can assess what it is going to be. If there's going to be variability, then
signaling the variability, signaling the charge out rate, and each of the
authorities has its own means of communicating
with the professional about what that means in
practice. If all of those things happen,
then
I think you meet the objective of transparency,
certainty of a fee.
Okay.
But perhaps you need to be able to pin down a dollar figure, but
there needs to be a process that sits behind that the person can
see the dollar figure and not just
have some open-ended variable.
Helpful. Thank you.
Yes, I think I can. I think
there is transparency. We haven't got the
fee. We could certainly do the range, but there's transparency on a
case-by-case basis to the person that has to pay the fee.
Absolute transparency at the beginning.
That's helpful.
I think there's a tension between, obviously in some senses, the
ideal fee from a pure cost recovery basis would be to have every fee for
every possible interaction as it costs whatever it is that it actually costs.
Yep.
But that's not workable or fair on the practitioner.
So I think the question is really at what level of
abstraction are you willing to accept?
For things like annual practicing certificates,
the overs and unders smooth out much more easily because there are many, many
thousands of them. For things like accreditation or for
competence programs, those overs and unders fall into much sharper relief just
because there's a lot fewer of them.
Mm-hmm.
So that makes getting it right that it means if you get it
wrong, it's really obvious. There's a big delta between how much it actually costs
and how much you've charged. So that's why for
things like registration and stuff, I think all of the RAs
have gone for fixed fees because that's appropriate there.
And it does get much harder for all the reasons that Marie set out.
It does get much harder once you get into those competence things.
Because while
at the RAs we like to group stuff as, oh, well, it's a clinical reasoning thing, or
oh, well, it's a clinical records thing.
Actually, once you get into that, there's so many more layers of complexity into
that, and I don't think it really helps anyone to have a fees notice that's 150
pages long, on which we say that a competence
program for a level six clinical records program is going to cost
this.
So I think the challenge is just really finding that point of abstraction
that's fair, and that is transparent, and communicates the fee, but
also is actually workable in practice.
And compliant with your law, I guess.
Exactly.
Yeah. For something predictable and regular,
fixed fees are obviously the right way to go.
But if there's variability, you've got to have an hourly rate or something like
that.
And it is exactly as James said, better than I could ever.
But we're trying to avoid cross-subsidiarity.
We're trying to avoid
creating a tax by overcharging. So yeah, there
is a tension.
Okay, cool.
I don't think I'm saying anything different about fairness,
transparency, and certainty.
Mm-hmm.
I'd love to know if we can have a small range for that accreditation bit,
just that it is those three things.
Mm-hmm.
So.
Thank you. Before I come to you, Chinese Medicine,
look, just a reflection before you give us an answer.
Medical Council have some of the most trusted, and
publicly available members in the country.
They are some powerful political actors.
Politicians don't like to mess with doctors.
And I'm sure their regulatory body doesn't either.
And so they have some of the most transparent fees.
When we're talking about fairness here, you have a group of practitioners who are
often second language speakers, who are some of the least
powerful people in terms of political, in the
court of public opinion.
Are we sure that in a regulatory body setting
a non-transparent fee, that some of these
people aren't going to get a really raw deal and that we're not setting the wrong
incentives for people who can't push back on
government?
So just to be clear, we're not talking about practitioners for the
so-called
variable fees that you are talking about.
Yeah.
So we do have set fixed fees for everything else that we
do. So for the practitioners' registration, annual
practicing certificate, et cetera, they're all
fixed fees. And I would argue that we do have transparent
charges. We do not put an overhead or
make up fees that we charge education providers
for their qualification accreditation assessment.
So that's the only variable fee that the Chinese Medical
Council charges at cost recovery effectively.
So we do provide the institutions an estimate
on, really a wild guess initially, but after having
done a couple of these, we now have a range to work with
so we can give a more accurate range.
But it's still highly variable, as we've mentioned.
The rate of charge out that the people involved in
the process is transparent and is given, and
so it's not like we're charging a variable hourly rate and changing it
every five seconds. It's not that at all. It's very transparent.
We don't put an overhead on anything, so it's full
cost recovery is what it is. The
variability is inevitable for the range of
reasons that we and other RAs have
already raised.
And as others have mentioned, now that we've done a couple, we can give a
much better estimate. But in order to
avoid that case of undercharging, overcharging people
significantly, and not individuals, we're talking about
institutions that are needing to meet the criteria
so their graduate can meet the registration criteria.
This is not to the individual
practitioners.
It is the education provider's responsibility to ensure
that their course meets the standards, and the charges that we're talking about
that's variable is for that cost.
Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you all.
Thank you.
An unusual hearing, but thank you. You've solved our problems. We're done.